# FibPseudoprime-SanitizedInputs

## About the project

This GitHub repository is a continuation of our work from the repository FibPseudoprime (writte in Haskell) and Primes (written in C++). It was created for the purpose of testing our work from the paper, ['Using Fibonacci factors to create Fibonacci pseudoprimes.'](https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.13513)

## File Overviews

The `/data` folder contains files used for our tests and verifications. The data contained in these files are a direct download from the [MersenneUs website](https://mersennus.net/fibonacci/). Formats on how the data was organized may be found there as well. It contains the list of factors of all [Lucas numbers](https://github.com/ensj/FibPseudoprime-SanitizedInputs/blob/master/data/allLucasFactors.txt), and the list of factors of all [odd Fibonacci numbers](https://github.com/ensj/FibPseudoprime-SanitizedInputs/blob/master/data/oddFibFactors.txt). 

`FibText.py` extracts Fibonacci numbers and their factors from the data files described above, then generates all possible Baillie-PSW pseudoprimes from this data.

`factors_final.txt` is the list of factors along with the index of the Fibonacci number from which they are derived. This file is used to generate possible Baillie-PSW pseudoprimes. It is an array of arrays containing the following: `[Index of fibonacci number L, [1 mod L factors], [-1 mod L factors]]`

`fibThree.cpp` generates all pairs of twin primes from 1 to n where one number is 7 mod 10 and tests their product as a Baillie-PSW pseudoprime.

`fibFour.cpp` loops through odd numbers from 1 to 2n + 1, and runs a probabalistic primality test on each one to deduce if the number is prime. If the number is prime, it then runs the same test for the corresponding Fibonacci number. If this number is composite, it is tested as a possible Baillie-PSW pseudoprime. 

`fibFive.cpp` loops through odd numbers from 1 to 2n + 1, and runs a probabalistic primality test on each one to deduce if the number is prime AND +/- 2 mod 5. If both conditions are met on a number 'p', the Fibonacci number with index '2p' is tested as a possible Baillie-PSW pseudoprime. 

## Usage

To run the C++ programs, we recommend the G++ compiler. [GMP](https://gmplib.org) is also a required dependency for all programs. Compile as `g++ (program name) -lgmp -o (executable name)`, then run using `./(executable name)`.

To run the Python programs, we recommend installing Python 3. Run as `python3 (program name)`.

## Considerations

Several things should be noted for `FibText.py` that weren't initially considered before: 

    - For an Lth fibonacci number, F_L, if L is divisible by 5 then it must be the case that prime factors of F_L will be congruent to 1 mod L. This is significant because without prime factors that are -1 mod L, we cannot construct possible Baillie-PSW pseudoprimes. This means we may simply skip over all L that is divisible by 5 in the future.

    - If L is odd, then we know for a fact that candidates generated by F_L would be included in candidates generated by F_2L. This means we can skip over generating candidates for all odd L, so long as we know we will generate candidates for 2L. 

## Contributing

Currently, we see no relevant methods of contributing to this project. If you would like to contribute a significant change, contact Junhyun Lim (limjunhyun@gmail.com) or Shaunak Mashalkar (ssmash724@gmail.com) to do so. 

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)
